ps command:


The ps command allows us to see what's actually running on our server, the processes that are running on our server.


ps

This command shows the processes that are running in the current terminal session.
This command will show us four columns.
PID, TTY, TIME, CMD

PID : Process Id
TTY : Refers to the Terminal that the process is running inside of.
TIME : Refers to CPU time, how much time the process has been utilizing the CPU.
CMD : Command, the actual command that is running as part of that process.

Each line is a process.
No two processes can have the same PID.

bash is a shell that runs inside a terminal.


There are different styles of options with the ps command.
1. Unix style options:
It includes '-' in front of the options and then we can chain other options together.
'aux' is actually three different options, a, u and x.

2. BSD style options:
With this style, there is no '-'.

3. GNU style options:
ps --quick-pid <pid>

Example:
ps --quick-pid 2925

This command will just show us the one process represented by the given pid.


NOTE:
The output from these various options might show differently depending on the distribution we are running.


ps x

This command will shows all the processes that are running as my user.
If a process was started as part of a specific terminal, it will show that terminal.
If a process was started by the system, it will show a '?'.


ps -He

This command will show us a process hierarchy.
This helps to see the process relationship.
The 'e' option tells ps to list all the processes that are running on the system regardless of the controlling terminal.
The 'H' option formats the command column to display the parent child relationship between the processes.


ps -axjf

This command will also show us the process relationships in an easy way.
It will also show us PPID and PID.


ps aux

This command shows the USER for each of the processes.
This command also shows the CPU % and MEM % that is being used by each process.


------------------------------------- Completed --------------------------------